Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we are going to let one user account follow another user account.
Let's walk through an example.
So I'm currently logged in with my brat account, but let's say I search for dog.
I see this post titled Being a Dog Is Fun by barks a lot.
So if I click on that to read it, if I really enjoyed this post I might want to follow the author.
So first let's make sure that I can actually click on their author name here or their avatar here to
view their profile.
Then from their profile screen there will be a button that says Begin following this user.
OK, but first, let's set up the links to their profile.
So to adjust this template, let's jump into our text editor within our Views folder.
Let's jump in to a single dash post dash screen, OK, if we scroll down past this area with the title
in this next chunk of code, we see an element or link.
Here's the image tag.
So this is the link surrounding the avatar.
So if someone clicks on that graviton instead of just an HSF of hash tag, let's say slash profile slash,
and then it should be their username only, this should be dynamic.
So let's get rid of the actual word username and instead drop in to SJS.
Less than percentage equal sign to close that out, percentage greater than and let's just say post
dot author, dot username.
OK, not to save a bit of typing, let's just copy the same RF value.
So from the beginning forward slash before profile all the way to the closing tag.
Let's copy that.
And then on this line where we see posted by and then it's going to be the username you can click on.
Let's also adjust this value.
So instead of the hash tag, just paste in your clipboard.
OK, let's save this and then refresh on the front end.
OK, so now my brat account can view this post by the dog and actually click on the author's name to
go to that profile, if I go back, I can also now click on their avatar.
Cool.
Now, from this profile screen, let's set things up so that when I click this follow icon or follow
button, I actually begin following this user to make that happen.
Let's jump into the template that powers this profile screen.
So back in our editor within our Views folder, let's jump in to profile SJS.
OK, around line number nine, we see a button with the text that says follow.
And we can see that this button lives within a form element.
So when they click this button, this form is going to submit.
So let's just adjust the form action attribute.
Right.
This defines where the form is going to submit or send its request to.
So get rid of the placeholder hash tag and instead, let's say slash ad follow slash and then the username
of the user you want to begin following only we'd want this to be dynamic.
So instead we would drop in to SJS and just work with the variable that's named profile user name.
OK, let's go ahead and save this.
And now we better go set up a route that matches this pattern.
So within the route of our project folder, jump into Rueter.
Yes.
Let's scroll down to the bottom and right before the closing module DOT exports, let's add a new comment
and say follow related routes.
OK, then let's Adira.
So router dot post.
If someone sends a post request to slash ad follow slash and then to store a segment of the Eurail as
a query parameter, we can just say Colline username.
OK then comma.
And the second argument is a function that we would want to run in response to this.
In this case, instead of working with our user controller or post controller, let's have a separate
controller dedicated to follows or creating a follow.
So let's scroll up to the top of this file and you can see we're already importing our user controller
and post controller.
So just duplicate one of these lines to save a bit of typing, copy paste and let's name the new copy
follow controller and then just require in a file that's named Orlo Controller.
OK, now we can leverage this to back down in our new route.
For the second argument, let's begin working with our follow controller.
And we haven't created any functions within that controller yet.
You can imagine that we will in just a moment.
So let's look inside it for a function named add follow while we're at it.
Let's actually protect this route with our must be logged in function, right?
If you're not logged in, we just want to stop this route immediately.
Clearly, you should be logged in in order to follow a user.
So right before we list out this function, we can just say user controller DOT must be logged in and
then include a comma.
At this point, this route is good to go.
Now we just need to jump into our follow controller file and create a matching function named add follow.
So let's save this.
And then within our controllers folder, if you don't already have an empty file name to follow controller
tags, that's OK.
Just go ahead and create one right now.
OK, but within that file, let's begin by saying exports dot and we want to function with that matching
name that we just referenced of ADD follow.
Let's set that to equal a function and within the parentheses, be sure to include parameters of request
and response.
OK, now when it comes to the actual body of this function, we would just want to leverage our model
for a follow.
So before we move on any further, let's create a new file within our models folder.
So I'm going to right.
Click on the models folder, choose new file, let's name it uppercase follow dot J.S. within this new
model file, let's say let uppercase follow equal a function.
For now we can leave this function completely blank and then down at the very bottom of this file we
would just want to export uppercase follow.
So module dot exports equals follow.
Let's go ahead and save this and now back in our follow controller, up at the very top, let's import
or require in the model so we can say consed uppercase follow equals and then just require it.
And so we would give require a file path dot dot to move up out of the controllers folder and then go
into the models folder and then pull in the file that's named uppercase fallen.
OK, now within our add follow function, what we would actually want to do is create a new variable,
let's say lowercase follow and set that to equal a new instance of uppercase follow.
Within these parentheses, we want to pass in any information that the model would need to make its
decisions and performance validation.
In this case, we'd want to pass it to things the user name that the current user is trying to follow
and the idea of the current visitor that has session data, the user that's logged in that's trying
to do the following.
So first, the user name that they want to begin following that would be request programmes, dot,
username, comma.
Then let's also give it the current visitor, the person that's trying to do the following.
So request dot visitor ID.
OK, now that our model has everything that it needs on a new line, we can just say follow lowercase
follow dot, create.
Right.
We want to create a new follow document in the database that says that X user is now following Y user.
We haven't actually created this method yet in our model, but you can imagine we will in just a moment.
And when we do set it up, we will make sure that it returns a promise.
And if it's a promise, that means at the end of it we could say dot then and dot Keje.
Let's provide arrow functions within both then and catch.
Do the same thing for Ketch.
OK, now, if this promise is successful, if it resolves, then we just want to create a flash message
that says congrats, you successfully started following excuser.
So let's do that here.
Request Flash.
Let's add on to a collection of messages named Success Karma.
And the actual message could be successfully followed.
And actually, instead of quotes, let's use back ticks for this message.
So I will also adjust the closing quote to be back, Dick, let's say, successfully followed and then
to do something dynamic, dollar sign curly brackets.
And it would just be the username that they just tried to follow.
So request Paramo username so successfully followed Brad or successfully followed barks a lot.
OK, after we create that flash message, then I would just want to redirect them back to that user's
profile so I would manually save session data requests session not save.
I'd give that an arrow function and it can all sit on one line and then I would just redirect them.
So response dot redirect instead of quotes, I'd use tactics and say slash profile slash and then sign
curly brackets, request prams, dot username, ok.
However, if this promise fails or if it rejects, well that means the visitor was trying something
weird or sneaky or malicious.
So in that case, within catch, within the parentheses, I'd want to receive whatever errors the promise
is going to reject with.
There might only be one error, but it's still going to be an array.
So errors dot for each.
We'd want to provide the same function that we'd run once for each error.
So let's use an arrow function pass in a parameter of error or singular.
We don't need parentheses for just one parameter.
OK, and what I'd want to do for each item is just create a flash message.
So request flash, add on to the errors collection and the message would be error.
OK, after that foreach finishes.
I just want to save the session data and redirect them back to the homepage.
Right.
Because they're probably trying something weird or sneaky or malicious.
So I wouldn't want to redirect them to a username that probably doesn't even exist or is something weird.
So request session, save, provide an arrow function.
We don't need curly brackets.
It's just one statement or one action on a single line.
And this is where we can just say response dot redirect back to the home page.
OK, let's go ahead and save this file.
And now we better go jump into our follow model and make sure that it has a function named create that
returns a promise.
So jump into uppercase, follow JS.